1
As tensions escalate on the eastern border of Ukraine, President Barack Obama has called on Russian President Vladimir Putin and his government ""to cease all efforts to undermine and destabilize"" the sovereign nation after the movement of Russian troops into Ukraine and its annexing of Crimea. Meanwhile, our European allies continue round-the-clock conversations as the political leadership in Kiev is seemingly helpless to stave off the next potential military land grab. This is the backdrop to a legislative endeavor in Kiev that, although widely unreported in the West, will fundamentally reshape the world community's dialogue on the Ukrainian crisis. Two of Ukraine's leading political parties, ""Fatherland"" and ""Strike,"" have jointly introduced a bill in Parliament that calls for the rejection of the country's 1994 accession to the 1968 Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. Russia's disregard of international law, its apparent successful theft of Crimea and Ukraine's desperate attempt at self-preservation may result in the end of one of the last century's most important diplomatic milestones, the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and with it, the efforts of a generation to walk back the spread of nuclear weapons. A new global nuclear arms race may soon begin, and the world will have Putin to thank. In 1994, Ukraine, the Russian Federation, the United States and the United Kingdom entered into an agreement to remove former Soviet nuclear weapons from Ukraine, later known as the Budapest Memorandum. Ukraine agreed to sign the Non-Proliferation Treaty. In the history of nuclear weapons, only four states have ever walked away from nuclear capabilities: three post-Soviet states (Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan) and South Africa, which had covertly developed a nuclear weapons arsenal. Ukraine's actions were not without significant commitments, however, by the other signatories. Russia, the U. S. and the UK pledged in part ""to respect the independence and sovereignty and the existing borders of Ukraine"" and ""reaffirm their obligation to refrain from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of Ukraine. "" Today, Russia's policies and actions toward Ukraine's Crimea region demonstrate complete disregard for this critically important memorandum and international law. As a response, some within the Ukrainian government are looking beyond an immediate call for Western help to a more proactive means of guaranteeing their national security, i. e. regaining nuclear weapons status. The recently introduced legislation is the latest expression of the growing sentiment that a nuclear Ukraine is a protected Ukraine. Mustafa Dzhemilev, a member of the Ukrainian Parliament since 1998, recently said he had spoken directly with Putin and told him that because of Russia's breaking of the Budapest Memorandum, ""such arrangements will not be trusted by anyone anymore, and that each country that has financial capacity to acquire its own nuclear weapons will be aspired to go down that path, and Ukraine is no exception. "" In addition, former Minister of Foreign Affairs Vladimir Ogryzko recently said, ""Ukraine needs to announce that it is walking away from the NPT and immediately restart the full nuclear cycle and manufacturing of all the components of the weapons. "" Ironically, the notion of reacquiring nuclear weapons as a security guarantee is a position publicly advocated by Putin himself: ""If you cannot count on international law, then you must find other ways to ensure your security. . . . This is logical: If you have the bomb, no one will touch you. "" These words were written by Putin to the American people in the context of U. S. policy toward Syria in a New York Times opinion piece from September 11. Today, less than six months later, Putin's decision to disregard a critical agreement in violation of international law - and in disregard of his own logic - has set in motion a discussion that could have dire security implications on the Korean peninsula, in Tehran, in South Asia and anywhere nations are weighing the nuclear option for their security posture. The actions of Russia and Ukraine over the next few weeks have the potential to alter the global nuclear weapons dynamic in a profound and extremely dangerous way. One probable and immediate consequence of a Ukrainian choice to ""go nuclear"" would be that Belarus, a Ukrainian neighbor and close Kremlin ally, would also choose to return to its pre-treaty nuclear weapons status through the development of indigenous weapons or, even more likely, invite the placement of Russian nuclear weapons within its borders. Given Belarus' borders with EU member states Poland, Lithuania and Latvia, this would probably lead to EU and NATO reactions and a reversal of European nuclear stability trends not seen since the Non-Proliferation Treaty entered into force in March 1970. Putin has sent a clear message to the more than 25 non-nuclear states possessing the technical capabilities to join the nuclear weapons club that the stick of nuclear arms and not the carrot of international law is what guarantees national security. In the New York Times, he wrote, ""Preserving law and order in today's complex and turbulent world is one of the few ways to keep international relations from sliding into chaos. The law is still the law, and we must follow it whether we like it or not. "" It should be the hope of every nation that the crisis in Ukraine is quickly and peacefully resolved and that Putin takes his own words to heart, reversing a course that leads to a world where the phrase ""nuclear arms race"" is not relegated only to the past. 
golden 1
Russia's disregard of international law, its apparent successful theft of Crimea and Ukraine's desperate attempt at self-preservation may result in the end of one of the last century's most important diplomatic milestones, the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, and with it, the efforts of a generation to walk back the spread of nuclear weapons. A new global nuclear arms race may soon begin, and the world will have Putin to thank. It should be the hope of every nation that the crisis in Ukraine is quickly and peacefully resolved and that Putin takes his own words to heart, reversing a course that leads to a world where the phrase "nuclear arms race" is not relegated only to the past. 
2
With every passing day, the wait for the kidnapped Nigerian girls gets more agonizing. Boko Haram seized the nearly 300 schoolgirls and vanished into a dense forest last month. Their abduction sparked a global movement as throngs took to the streets demanding their rescue. Officials say 276 girls remain missing. Here's why their rescue is a risky, complicated effort. It's been more than three weeks. The ticking clock could mean the girls are getting farther away. Militants herded the girls out of bed on April 14 at a school in Chibok in northern Nigeria. A few escaped and shared harrowing tales of fleeing a nearby forest. At the time, relatives roaming through the forest searching for the girls said there were no signs of soldiers in the area considered a militant hideout. "In a hostage situation, time is of the essence," said U. S. Navy Rear Adm. John Kirby. "We lost some time. " Missing girls likely separated. Kirby said the missing girls may have been broken up into smaller groups and taken out of the country. Local residents say they've heard reports of cars filled with girls headed to neighboring Cameroon. The forest is near the Cameroon border, which is porous and doesn't require much to pass through. In some cases, a simple monetary bribe will get you waved into neighboring nations, in this case a list that includes Chad and Niger. "The search must be in Niger, Cameroon and Chad to see if we can find information," said Gordon Brown, a former UK Prime Minister and the U. N. 's special envoy for global education. Location and number of hostages are factors. The girls' abduction occurred in an area where the government doesn't have a firm grip. The school is about 600 miles from the capital of Abuja. And the large number of hostages means airstrikes may not be an option because they can kill captives. A ground assault isn't a great option either - not when it is done in unfamiliar terrain against entrenched, well-armed fighters. Nigerian military isn't the most trustworthy. Hours after the girls went missing, the Nigerian military faced criticism for its handling of the kidnapping. It said it had rescued all but eight of the girls, a claim it later recanted after their parents said most remained missing. Ensuing attacks have shown that the security forces don't have the capability to protect civilians, which will make many think twice before providing intelligence. It's also ill-equipped. Numerous attacks in recent years make it clear that Nigeria does not have the most sophisticated programs to battle terrorism. In addition, it's lacking in intelligence gathering, a crucial element in the search for the missing girls. This has prompted the United States, Britain, China and a host of other nations to step in to fill the gap. The U. S. offer to help includes the creation of a "coordination cell" to provide intelligence, investigations and hostage negotiation expertise, the U. S. State Department said. Boko Haram beheads negotiators. While negotiations may be an option in some hostage crises, this case may not be so clear cut. Rights groups have accused Nigeria of using heavy-handed tactics such as illegal searches, torture and extrajudicial killings to crack down on the militants. As a result, it has eroded trust between the two sides, prompting Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau to say he "will not enter a truce with infidels," U. S. lawmakers said last year. Boko Haram members who try to negotiate with the government get beheaded. "Reports of beheadings seem to go up when there are talks of negotiation. It is plausible that many of these beheadings, which rose in frequency in early 2012, are purges of moderate members who have complained or attempted to negotiate," U. S. lawmakers said. If there are negotiations going on, they have not yielded results so far. Its members are always on the move. The militants don't sit still for long, making them even more elusive. Members hop from one location to another to avoid an intensified government crackdown. They leave their wives behind when they scamper into hideouts deep into forests, forcing the girls and women kidnapped to perform chores and sexual services. Shekau is a cold, ruthless monster. The Boko Haram leader took credit this week for the Chibok kidnapping. "I abducted your girls," he taunted with a chilling smile. "There is a market for selling humans. Allah says I should sell. He commands me to sell. " He operates in the shadows, leaving his underlings to orchestrate his repulsive mandates. And they have been busy. Days after his video surfaced, details emerged of another abduction of eight girls between ages 12 and 15 on Sunday night in the northeast. And a grisly assault on a local village left hundreds of people dead. The bounty on his head may not help much. Shekau has been on the U. S. radar since he came to power five years ago. The United States offered a reward of up to $7 million for information leading to his location. But that may not yield immediate results. "African warlord Joseph Kony's had a bounty for years. Osama bin Laden was not given up because of the $25 million bounty. And who knows whether this will be the case," said Christiane Amanpour, CNN's chief international correspondent. 
golden 2
Officials say 276 girls remain missing. Militants herded the girls out of bed on April 14 at a school in Chibok in northern Nigeria. The girls' abduction occurred in an area where the government doesn't have a firm grip. As a result, it has eroded trust between the two sides, prompting Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau to say he "will not enter a truce with infidels," U. S. lawmakers said last year. 
3
A fourth infant has been discovered to have been infected with a rare, sometimes fatal form of bacteria that can come from baby formula, but there is no evidence the cases are related, federal health authorities said Friday. "Based on test results to date, there is no need for a recall of infant formula and parents may continue to use powdered infant formula, following the manufacturer's directions on the printed label," the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Food and Drug Administration said in a joint update. The latest case of Cronobacter infection occurred in Florida, the update said. After cases occurred in Missouri and Illinois, authorities looked for other cases, and found an Oklahoma case and the one in Florida. The Florida and Missouri infants died this month of their infections. The Missouri case prompted retail giant Wal-Mart to pull all cans of the same size and lot number of baby formula from its shelves. But DNA fingerprinting of the bacteria from the Missouri and Illinois cases found the bacteria differed, suggesting they were not related, the agencies said. Bacteria from the other two cases were not available for testing, they said. In the Missouri case, Cronobacter bacteria were found in an opened bottle of nursery water and prepared infant formula, but it was not clear how they became contaminated, the update said. Tests on factory-sealed containers of powdered infant formula and nursery water with the same lot numbers turned up no Cronobacter bacteria, it said, adding, "There is currently no evidence to conclude that the infant formula or nursery water was contaminated during manufacturing or shipping. " Formula maker Mead Johnson Nutrition said the agencies' test results corroborated its own. "We're pleased with the FDA and CDC testing, which should reassure consumers, health care professionals and retailers everywhere about the safety and quality of our products," Tim Brown, senior vice president and general manager for North America, said in a statement. "These tests also reinforce the rigor of our quality processes throughout our operations. " Cronobacter infection typically occurs during the first days or weeks of life. In a typical year, the CDC said, it learns of four to six such cases. This year, with increased awareness of the infection, it has tallied 12 cases. The bacteria can cause severe infection or inflammation of the membranes that cover the brain. Symptoms can start with fever, poor feeding, crying or listlessness. "Any young infant with these symptoms should be in the care of a physician," the update says. The bacteria can be found in the environment and can multiply in powdered infant formula once it is mixed with water, said the CDC, which recommends breastfeeding whenever possible. Cronobacter is fatal in nearly 40% of cases, according to the CDC. Infection survivors can be left with severe neurological problems. 
golden 3
"Based on test results to date, there is no need for a recall of infant formula and parents may continue to use powdered infant formula, following the manufacturer's directions on the printed label," the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Food and Drug Administration said in a joint update. But DNA fingerprinting of the bacteria from the Missouri and Illinois cases found the bacteria differed, suggesting they were not related, the agencies said. The bacteria can be found in the environment and can multiply in powdered infant formula once it is mixed with water, said the CDC, which recommends breastfeeding whenever possible. 
